(This text has been extracted from the manual in XML format `IrScrutinizer.xml`. Do not edit this file.)

# Building from sources

"IrScrutinizer" is one subproject within [harctoolbox.org](https://harctoolbox.org).
            It depends on several other subprojects within harctoolbox. The repository [IrScrutinizer](https://github.com/bengtmartensson/IrScrutinizer)
        consists
                of this subproject.

The released versions are found on the [download page](https://github.com/bengtmartensson/IrScrutinizer/releases).
                The development sources are maintained on [my GitHub repository](https://github.com/bengtmartensson/IrScrutinizer).
                Forking and pull requests are welcome!

I go to great lengths ensuring that the program runs equally well on all supported platforms.
                I do not care too much that all aspects of the build runs equally well on all platforms.
                I build with Linux (Fedora), the continuous integration build runs on GitHub Actions (deploying Ubuntu).
                Other platforms are treated step-motherly.

## Dependencies
As any program of substantial size, IrScrutinizer uses a number of third-party components.
                    All of these are also free software, carrying compatible licenses.
                    The dependent packages need to be installed also in
                    the host-local Maven repository in order for the build to work.
                    In some cases (basically the ones with a version not ending with `-SNAPSHOT`), the packages
                    are uploaded to [the Maven central repository](https://mvnrepository.com/repos/central),
                    and will be automatically downloaded to the local host by a Maven invocation.
                

There are some scripts to aid downloading and building, described next. It is assumed that
                    [git](https://git-scm.com/) and [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)
                    are installed and available as commands `git` and `mvn` respectively.

Of course, it is also possible to manually download or clone these packages
                    from [my Github repositories](https://github.com/bengtmartensson?tab=repositories),
                    then build and install them locally by `mvn install`.

### IrpTransmogrifier, Girr, HarcHardware, Jirc
These are all Java packages that are required to build IrScrutinizer. HarcHardware requires
                        [nrjavaserial](https://github.com/NeuronRobotics/nrjavaserial).
                        They can be downloaded and built by the script `common/scripts/build-harctoolbox-project.sh`,
                        using an argument of
                        `IrpTransmogrifier`,
                        `Girr`,
                        `HarcHardwar`, or
                        `Jirc`.
                        See the file `.github/workflows/maven.yml` for the complete commands.
                    

### DevSlashLirc
This library is used to access `/dev/lirc`-hardware. It is used by the Linux version only.
                        It is a Java JNI library, written in Java and C++. It is written by myself,
                        and available [here](https://github.com/bengtmartensson/DevSlashLirc).
                    

The subdirectories `native/Linux-amd64`,
                        `native/Linux-i386`, and
                        `native/Linux-arm` contain compiled versions for the x86_64, x86_32, and ARM processors respectively.

The package can be downloaded, and the Java part built, by the script
                        `common/scripts/build-harctoolbox-project.sh` using the argument `DevSlashLirc`
                        (see `.travis.yml` for an example).

### nrjavaserial
This is a fork of the legacy [RXTX](http://rxtx.qbang.org/wiki/index.php/Main_Page) library for serial communication with Java.
                    Version 5.2.1 is currently used. 

### JCommander
Normally, this component is downloaded and installed automatically by Maven.

### Tonto
[Tonto](Glossary.html#Tonto) can be downloaded and installed by the script `common/scripts/build-tonto.sh`.
                        It requires the [Apache ant](https://ant.apache.org/) build system to be installed as the command `ant`.
                        Note that the shared library `libjnijcomm`,
                        which is required by the Tonto program for communicating with a Pronto remote through a serial interface,
                        is not required for use with IrScrutinizer, and can therefore be left out.
                        Using the option `-n` to the script (see `.travis.yml` for an example),
                        the script will not try to build and install the shared library.

## Building
The [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/index.html) "software
                    project management and comprehension tool" is used as building system.
                    Modern IDEs like Netbeans and Eclips integrate Maven, so build etc can be initiated from the IDE.
                    Of course, the shell command `mvn install` can also be used. It creates some artifacts which can
                    be used to run IrScrutinizer in the `IrScrutinizer/target` directory.

Two additional shell tools are needed. These are:



* The `unix2dos` and `dos2unix` utilities, typically in the `dos2unix` package.

* The `icotool` utility, typically in the `icoutils` package.


## Windows setup.exe creation
For building the Windows setup.exe, the [Inno Installer version 6](https://www.jrsoftware.org/download.php/is.exe)
                    is needed. To build the Windows `setup.exe` file, preferably the work area should
                    be mounted on a Windows computer. Then, on the Windows computer, open
                    the generated file `IrScrutinizer/target/IrScrutinizer_inno.iss` with
                    the Inno installer, and start the compile. This will generate the desired file
                    `IrScutinizer-`_version_`.exe`.

Alternatively, the "compatibility layer capable of running
                    Windows applications" software application [Wine](https://www.winehq.org) (included in most Linux
                    distributions) can run the ISCC compiler of Inno. The Maven file
                    `IrScrutinizer/pom.xml` contains an
                    invocation along these lines, conditional upon the existence of the file `../Inno Setup 6/ISCC.exe`.

## Mac OS X app creation
The Maven build creates a file
                    `IrScrutinizer-`_version_`-macOS.dmg`.
                    This file can be directly distributed to the users, to be installed according to
                    [these instructions](http://harctoolbox.org/IrScrutinizer.html#MacOS+app).

The icon file `IrScrutinizer.icns` was produced from the Crystal-Clear
                    icon `babelfish.png` in 128x128 resolution, using the procedure
                    described
                    [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11770806/why-doesnt-icon-composer-2-4-support-the-1024x1024-size-icon-any-more).
                

## AppImage creation
To build the x86_64 AppImage, define `bundledjdk_url_sans_file`
                    and `bundledjdk` in `pom.xml` to point to a suitable JDK distrubution file.
                    If a file with name given by `bundledjdk`
                    is not present in the top level directory, it can be downloaded by the script `tools/get-jdk-tar.sh`.
                    Then the maven goal `make-appimage` (which will be invoked during a normal build) will build an appimage for x86_64.
                

## Test invocation
For testing purposes, the programs can be invoked from their different target directories.
                    IrScrutinizer can be invoked as


    
                    $ java -jar target/IrScrutinizer-_version_-jar-with-dependencies.jar
                
or, if the shared libraries are required, with _path-to-shared-libraries_ denoting the path to a directory containing
                    the shared libraries.


    
                    $ java -Djava.library.path=_path-to-shared-libraries_ -jar target/IrScrutinizer-_version_-jar-with-dependencies.jar
                
IrScrutinizer can also be started by double clicking the mentioned jar file,
                    provided that the desktop has been configured to start executable jar with a Java virtual machine.

## Installation
Maven does not support something like `make install` for deployment installing a
                    recently build program on the local host.
                    Instead, the supplied `tools/Makefile` can
                    install the program to normal Linux locations (in the Makefile `INSTALLDIR`),


    
                    sudo make -f tools/Makefile install
                
Equivalently, the just created generic-binary package
                    `IrScrutinizer/target/IrScrutinizer-*-bin.zip`) can be installed using [these instructions](http://harctoolbox.org/IrScrutinizer.html#Generic+Binary).

